in the past I've been busy with small
scale solar energy systems and this is
for instance regulator a voltage
regulator made to charge 12 24 volt
battery
I've built three of them and they all
work properly but when you want to do
something with solar energy you will
always find the problem from the cable
loss and that's also a problem that I
encountered in all my experiments so
this video is a little bit about cable
walls and I made a small demonstration
circuit here this is 100 meter massive
copper wire in this box
the diameter is approximately 2
millimeters and it's connected to a
12-volt halogen lamp here in the middle
of the video and now we can see what the
effect is from the cable so when you
have that lamp 50 meters away from the
battery the 12-volt battery and the
other 50 meters back from this cable to
the battery you get a white substantial
loss of voltage and energy and it's all
dissipated in the cable now the cable is
quite sick there is a substantial loss
and this whole box full of 100 meter
wire reads on the unpair are sorry on
the ohm meter
1.3 ohms so that's the resistor effect
that precedes the 12-volt 50 watt lamp
switch on the power supply now this is
the voltage to the lamp 10 volt this is
the current 3 points:2 or so and now you
see how bright the lamp lights up and
now I can take the case
ouch and you can see that the lab the
lamp lights up more fiercely and this is
all loss this energy is dissipated in
the cable so the effect from this is
that when you want to make a circuit set
have to handle a high current on 24
volts or 12 volts you need thick copper
cables that's of course clear I think
and a much better way to do it all is to
use an inverter and use a battery 12 or
24 volts here an inverter here the
output from the effort achieves AC can
be 230 volts or 110 volt 60 Hertz 50
Hertz doesn't manage and here this part
of the circuit there's a short and SiC
cable and with my 1500 watt inverter
that I bought this cable was very very
sick proximately now let's say eight
millimeters or so always use a few here
and this is another inverter that I've
bought 24 for my 24 volts solar system
this is such an inverter this is the
output 230 volts 50 Hertz and this is
the input 24 volts and it's cooled by a
small friend so when you want to make a
solar system with low loss this is the
best way to do it use an inverter and
short thick cables here the lengths may
not be too long because otherwise the
inverter doesn't work properly it
switches off too quickly due to the
voltage drop in the cable and the
problems however from such any further
circuits
that I found there's a high inrush
current it will burn your contacts from
relays or so the infrared beeps when the
low-voltage warning gets active
approximately 21 volts so it's annoying
beep and when it has switched off it
takes current and that's quite high a
fount is approximately 500 milli ampair
for this inverter so that makes that you
have to find some circuit by which the
inverter is switched completely off when
the low voltage is reached and I solved
that problem in a low death manner so
after all my experiments I found it this
way is the best way to get a solar
system working in a house or so